We're almost done with our application here we implemented the side menu.
Now it's time to implement the settings page so that we're actually able to change something there and
to switch to an alternative background in order to do this all go to the settings page and I'll start
on a template.
First of all all changed is to settings for capital S and then here in the content I'll use the I didn't
read.
Now even with the grid component wrapper because now I want that extra margin it introduces all place
a row inside of it as you already saw it and a column.
Now the goal is to first of all have a label and then some input element which allows us to toggle the
option the option of one to have is if we want to have the alternative background switched on or not.
Now we can of course simply add some text to your but when we're working with form elements and I will
create a full form here.
We will see this later in the course though we can also use either label does a special version of the
normal HVM label style nicely and having some extra features really look nice on mobile devices.
And here I would say alternative background because this describes the option and in a separate column
which I want to have sit next to it which is why I don't set up any whiffs with that it will automatically
distribute itself across this row.
So here I want to add another built in component ion toggle which you guessed it is a toggle element
and again consult the official documentation to dive super deep into it though.
One important thing we're going to learn much more about foreigns and different form elements later
in the chords in Obert apps.
So here what I want to do is I want to be able to switch between yes or no if I want to have alternative
background I can already see those if we say this and we go to the settings page.
This is to toggle.
So this looks nice but it doesn't do anything as of now right.
So in order to make it do anything I want to listen to a band does the event I want it to give us on
this custom Capulet it gives us its called ion change it's fired whenever we change to toggle.
How do I know that to see when it exists.
Well you could find formation like this in the API documentation if you need some kind of special component
in here or want to execute on Talk of a method which I have to implement and that will pass the event
object I and change will embed in my settings component your app will get rid of all the boilerplate.
I don't need right now and I will simply implement on toggle here.
For now I know that I get the event and I know that this event actually is of type toggle toggle is
Event type of class I own it.
Q gives me we have to import toggle from webs from ionic angular
import like this now toggle simply has some information about this toggle event about the state of this
input.
So we can log to the console learn more about this type like this but save this and now let's watch
the console when we switch just toggle here.
For guild there and a switch that you see does a city event emitted or the information we get by avionic
to about the toggle state.
Quite a lot of information.
The most important information is down here.
It's checked and we could also see that it's not disabled and we can also listen to an event dimeter
on this target object itself.
So these are things we can do with that.
Of course the information that it's checked is pretty important.
If I click on it again you'll see that checked is of course false because now I disabled it and this
is exactly the information we need.
So now we somehow need to store that information in a central place so that we can also access it in
our favorites page where we actually want to display an alternative background.
Well if we're thinking about central places to store information what does this sound like.
Of course we need a service.
Now it is kind of an advanced challenge for you but it might be interesting to try to implement such
a service on your own.
You somehow need to store the current state of data so you don't need to simply store if it's true or
false if it's switched on or not in that service.
So that would be that were later able to inject a service in the favorite's page and simply check which
state currently is triggered or which state we have.
This is your task in a next lecture I will create a service together with you.